README.md, before:

Avanti Interactive Video
========================

## Requirements

### Python
* `python 3.7`
* `virtualenv` (usually installed via `pip install virtualenv`)
* A virtual environment created with `python 3.8.5`:
```
virtualenv ~/eb-virt
```

### Postgres

```
brew install postgresql
```

## Starting

I followed the instructions [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-postgresql-with-your-django-application-on-ubuntu-14-04). It's for Ubuntu, but the commands work perfectly on a Mac. 

* Instead of `myproject`, I used `ivideo_db`, and instead of `myprojectuser`, I used `ivideo_root`. Password is the usual Avanti password. 
* On AWS
```
DB user: ivideoroot
password: USUAL_AVANTI_PASSWORD
```
* Administrator account credentials:
```
username: ivideo_admin
email: avantied@avanti.in
password: USUAL_AVANTI_PASSWORD
```

```
source ~/eb-virt/bin/activate
pip instlal django psycopg2-binary
pip install -r requirements.txt
python3 manage.py migrate
python3 manage.py makemigrations

python3 manage.py collectstatic
python3 manage.py runserver
```

## Troubleshooting

* You can ssh into the instance to figure things out.

```
eb ssh -i INSTANCE_ID
```
The instance ID should be available in the errot message. 
* Migration problems on the EB instance. Solution from [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62457165/deploying-django-to-elastic-beanstalk-migrations-failed/63074781#63074781)


## TODO

[] Implement custom commands from [here](https://realpython.com/deploying-a-django-app-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk/)

## Elastic Beanstalk things

The packages that are nee
### References

1. Digital Ocean's guide to setting up an [empty Django Project with Postgres](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-postgresql-with-your-django-application-on-ubuntu-14-04)
2. Decent detailed tutorial series on [Elastic Beanstalk + Django](https://www.starwindsoftware.com/blog/deploying-django-project-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk) and [Postgres](https://www.starwindsoftware.com/blog/deploying-django-project-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk-part-2-database-settings-configuration)
3. [Offical AWS Docs for this combo](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/create-deploy-python-django.html)
4. Getting EB CLI to work properly. [Official](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3-configuration.html) + [SO help](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29190202/how-to-change-the-aws-account-using-the-elastic-beanstalk-cli)
5. Crazy. Static file uploading error. [SO Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62273041/aws-elastic-beanstalk-can-not-find-static-files-for-django-app)

Commit message:

DOC: Edited README.md for Windows users

README.md, after:

Avanti Interactive Video
========================

## Requirements

### Python
* `python 3.7`
* `virtualenv` (usually installed via `pip install virtualenv`)
* A virtual environment created with `python 3.8.5`:
```
virtualenv ~/eb-virt
```

### Postgres

#### Mac
```
brew install postgresql
```

#### Windows
* Download Postgres server from [here](https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads)
* Ensure that the installation includes the PostgreSQL Unicode ODBC driver. (Not required if you selected all options while installing)
* _Note_: Once installed, the PostgreSQL server appears in the `Services` tab in Windows Task Manager.
* Add the PostgreSQL bin directory path to the `PATH` environmental variable
* Confirm the installation by typing `psql` in the Command Prompt

## Starting

I followed the instructions [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-postgresql-with-your-django-application-on-ubuntu-14-04). It's for Ubuntu, but the commands work perfectly on a Mac. 

* Instead of `myproject`, I used `ivideo_db`, and instead of `myprojectuser`, I used `ivideo_root`. Password is the usual Avanti password. 
* On AWS
```
DB user: ivideoroot
password: USUAL_AVANTI_PASSWORD
```
* Administrator account credentials:
```
username: ivideo_admin
email: avantied@avanti.in
password: USUAL_AVANTI_PASSWORD
```

```
source ~/eb-virt/bin/activate
pip install django psycopg2-binary
pip install -r requirements.txt
python3 manage.py migrate
python3 manage.py makemigrations

python3 manage.py collectstatic
python3 manage.py runserver
```

## Troubleshooting

* You can ssh into the instance to figure things out.

```
eb ssh -i INSTANCE_ID
```
The instance ID should be available in the errot message. 
* Migration problems on the EB instance. Solution from [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62457165/deploying-django-to-elastic-beanstalk-migrations-failed/63074781#63074781)


## TODO

[] Implement custom commands from [here](https://realpython.com/deploying-a-django-app-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk/)

## Elastic Beanstalk things

The packages that are nee
### References

1. Digital Ocean's guide to setting up an [empty Django Project with Postgres](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-postgresql-with-your-django-application-on-ubuntu-14-04)
2. Decent detailed tutorial series on [Elastic Beanstalk + Django](https://www.starwindsoftware.com/blog/deploying-django-project-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk) and [Postgres](https://www.starwindsoftware.com/blog/deploying-django-project-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk-part-2-database-settings-configuration)
3. [Offical AWS Docs for this combo](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/create-deploy-python-django.html)
4. Getting EB CLI to work properly. [Official](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3-configuration.html) + [SO help](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29190202/how-to-change-the-aws-account-using-the-elastic-beanstalk-cli)
5. Crazy. Static file uploading error. [SO Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62273041/aws-elastic-beanstalk-can-not-find-static-files-for-django-app)
