docs/MULTITENANCY.md, before:

## Multitenancy
Plio uses the [django-tenants](https://django-tenants.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) package to implement multitenancy.

This guide aims to provide details on how Plio is using multi-tenancy and pre-requisites for someone contributing to the code.

### Creating an organization
Run the following commands to create an organization from programmatically:

1. Get into python shell.
    ```sh
    python3 manage.py shell
    ```

2. Create a public tenant that will be the default one.

    ```py
    # create your public tenant
    from organizations.models import Organization, Domain

    tenant = Organization(schema_name='public', name='Plio', shortcode='plio')
    tenant.save()

    domain = Domain()
    domain.domain = 'plio.in' # use domain.domain = '0.0.0.0' for development environment
    domain.tenant = tenant
    domain.is_primary = True
    domain.save()
    ```

3. Create a tenant organization that will have it's own schema.
    ```py
    # create your first real tenant
    tenant = Organization(schema_name='avantifellows', name='Avanti Fellows', shortcode='af')
    tenant.save()

    domain = Domain()
    domain.domain = 'plio.in/avantifellows'
    domain.tenant = tenant
    domain.is_primary = True
    domain.save()
    ```

4. Now log into your PostgreSQL database server. Run the following command to list all the schemas. You will see various schemas along with the two above: `public` and `avantifellows`
    ```sql
    SELECT schema_name FROM information_schema.schemata;
    ```

5. List tables from `public` and `avantifellows` schemas. You will notice that both schemas have basic tables for plio related things but public schema will also have tables for organization and user.
    ```sql
    -- view tables in public schema
    SELECT tablename FROM pg_catalog.pg_tables where schemaname='public';

    -- view tables in tenant organization schema
    SELECT tablename FROM pg_catalog.pg_tables where schemaname='avantifellows';
    ```

Commit message:

DOC: updated doc to reflect permission error on DB

docs/MULTITENANCY.md, after:

## Multitenancy
Plio uses the [django-tenants](https://django-tenants.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) package to implement multitenancy.

This guide aims to provide details on how Plio is using multi-tenancy and pre-requisites for someone contributing to the code.

### Creating an organization
Run the following commands to create an organization from programmatically:

1. Get into python shell.
    ```sh
    python3 manage.py shell
    ```

2. Create a public tenant that will be the default one.

    ```py
    # create your public tenant
    from organizations.models import Organization, Domain

    tenant = Organization(schema_name='public', name='Plio', shortcode='plio')
    tenant.save()

    domain = Domain()
    domain.domain = 'plio.in' # use domain.domain = '0.0.0.0' for development environment
    domain.tenant = tenant
    domain.is_primary = True
    domain.save()
    ```
    If you face an error when running this step locally saying "permission denied for database plio", it is likely because the database user does not permission to create new schema. It is likely going to be fixed by changing the
    `DATABASE_USER` in `zappa_settings.json` to your laptop's username.

3. Create a tenant organization that will have it's own schema.
    ```py
    # create your first real tenant
    tenant = Organization(schema_name='avantifellows', name='Avanti Fellows', shortcode='af')
    tenant.save()

    domain = Domain()
    domain.domain = 'plio.in/avantifellows'
    domain.tenant = tenant
    domain.is_primary = True
    domain.save()
    ```

4. Now log into your PostgreSQL database server. Run the following command to list all the schemas. You will see various schemas along with the two above: `public` and `avantifellows`
    ```sql
    SELECT schema_name FROM information_schema.schemata;
    ```

5. List tables from `public` and `avantifellows` schemas. You will notice that both schemas have basic tables for plio related things but public schema will also have tables for organization and user.
    ```sql
    -- view tables in public schema
    SELECT tablename FROM pg_catalog.pg_tables where schemaname='public';

    -- view tables in tenant organization schema
    SELECT tablename FROM pg_catalog.pg_tables where schemaname='avantifellows';
    ```
